Here we learn to create our own data along with working with data that already exists.
<br>
## Getting started

```python
import pandas as pd
```

## Creating Data

There are two core objects in pandas: the **DataFrame** and the **Series**

### 1. DataFrame

-DataFrame is just a table. It contains array of entries of certain value. Each entry corresponds to a row(record) or a column.For example
```python
pd.DataFrame({'Yes': [50, 21], 'No': [131,2]})

```

output - 

.|Yes|	No
----| ----| ----|
0	|50	|131
1	|21|	2

DataFrame entries cannot only be integers. For ex

```python
pd.DataFrame({'Bob': ['I liked it.', 'It was awful.'], 'Sue': ['Pretty good.', 'Bland.']})
```
output - 

.|	Bob|	Sue
---| ---| ---|
0	|I liked it.	|Pretty good.
1	|It was awful.|	Bland.

* Thus, we are using pd.DataFrame() constructor to generate these data frame objects. Syntax is a dictionary whose keys are column names(Bob,Sue) and values are the list of entries.This is the standard way of creating dataframe.
* Dictionary list constructor assigns ascending count from 0(0,1,2,3) for the row labels. List of row labels is called as index. We can assign values to it by using an **index**parameter in our constructor.

```python
pd.DataFrame({'Bob': ['I liked it.', 'It was awful.'], 
              'Sue': ['Pretty good.', 'Bland.']},
             index=['Product A', 'Product B'])
```

output - 

.| Bob|	Sue
  ----| ----| ----|
Product A|	I liked it.|	Pretty good.
Product B	| It was awful.	|Bland.

### 2. Series

It is a sequence of data values, much like a list. We can create one with nothing but a list.

```python
pd.Series([1,2,3,4,5])

output - 

0    1
1    2
2    3
3    4
4    5
```
Series is basically a single column of DataFrame or dataframe is just a bunch of series glued together. We can assign row labels with index parameter similar to what we did in Dataframe. We cannot name columns but can give name to the entire series.

```python
pd.Series([30,35,40],index = [ '2015 sales','2016 sales','2017 sales'], name = 'Product A')

output - 

2015 Sales    30
2016 Sales    35
2017 Sales    40
Name: Product A, dtype: int64
```

## Reading Data files

Most of the times, we would not be creating data but reading it from other sources. Most basic format in which data is stored is as CSV (Comma seperated value) file with .csv extension. Opening a csv file gives something like - 

```python
Product A,Product B,Product C,
30,21,9,
35,34,1,
41,11,11
```

We can easily see it is just calues seperated by commas.
<br>
For reading a real dataset we use pd.read_csv() function where the parameter given is the path of the file to be opened.

```python
wine_reviews = pd.read_csv("../input/wine-reviews/winemag-data-130k-v2.csv")
```

We can use shape attribute to check how large the DataFrame is. This gives a tuple of ( rows, columns ) in the dataset.
```python
wine_reviews.shape

output - 
(129971, 14)
```

We can see the contents of the dataframe by using head() command. It shows first five rows of the dataset.
```python
wine_reviews.head()

```
pd.read_csv() is well endowed with over 30 parameters we can specify!. For example, to make pandasuse a column for index, we can specify a index_col

```python

wine_reviews = pd.read_csv("../input/wine-reviews/winemag-data-130k-v2.csv", index_col = 0 )
wine_reviews.head()

```







