# Intro to Deep Learning for Computer Vision

Deep learning for computer vision is the core tech behind many camera kind of applications like self driving cars.

In the course, we will use tensorflow and the tensorflow implementation of keras(API). API (Application Programming Interface) are the links that allow different pieces of software interact with each other and kind of integrate with each other. Fpr example, any software like google chrome, notepad or file explorer when opened in windows has the same close button. This is because of the windows API that we don't have a different close button for each application.

This lesson is about convolutions. Convolutions are basic building blocks for deep learning models in Computer Vision.

Keras is the API here which is now built into tensorflow.

* We start by building models to get hands on experience on deep learning.
* Afterwards, we come back towards technical details neede to fine tune the model and addressing novel applications 
* We will learn deep learning using images, So we shall first see how images are stored in pixels.

>* grayscale image is a single 2d matrix for a number representing intensity of black in each pixel.
>* 3d images are stored in 3 2d matrices having number representing intensities of RGB in each pixel. Opencv uses BGR format for applications.

* Tensor is a word for something that is like a matrix but which can have many dimensions, so we will call matrices tensors from now on.So, grayscale image has 2D tensor representing Darkness.

## Convolutions

In deep learning, we apply convolutions to this type of tensor. A convolution is nothing but a small tensor that can be multiplied over little sections of main image.

Example -

<table>
<tr>
    <td>1.5</td>
    <td>1.5</td>
</tr>
<tr>
    <td>-1.5</td>
    <td>-1.5</td>
</tr>
</table>







































